Welcome to Enterprise Patterns,
featuring TypeScript and
what we're gonna do today is,
we're gonna hang out and
I'm gonna show you the patterns,
more importantly,
the mental models that I use to
program enterprise applications.
And so
this is a little bit off script, but
this is probably out of
all the courses I've done.
I am the most excited about this,
because in the course of this workshop,
I'm going to attempt to take
everyone from ground zero.
And incrementally built in such a way
that when we're finished, that we will
have arrived at the most complex type of
programming that I'm doing right now.
And when we talk about Enterprise
applications and Enterprise patterns,
I think the fallacy is a lot of
individuals start to think of complexity.
That we're going to introduce complex
things to help us do more complex things.
But in reality, when you look at patterns,
patterns exist to eliminate complexity.
And so,
as a person progresses in a skill set,
they start to build on their techniques,
build, build, build.
And then at some point,
they start to realize that there's
these patterns that exist, that they're
starting to see repeated across a couple
of different domains or context.
And then eventually, they start to
reduce everything into some core
fundamental principles,
that they use over and over.
And so this is my attempt to
share the things that for me,
are for programming for 20 years,
that I honestly believe
,that I could write down everything
that I know about programming,
and I do as a programmer
on a single piece of paper.
And so this could be flawlessly ambitious,
but I do believe very much
that it will be helpful.
And so here's the Agenda.
We're gonna talk about
managing complexity.
We're gonna talk about local complexity,
which I will refer to as
kind of micro complexity.
And I'm going to introduce
the axis of evil and so on.
I've talked about this before, but
we're gonna walk through this
in a very specific fashion.
From there, we're gonna talk
about feature complexity or
what I would call mezzo complexity.
And I'm gonna To introduce
the four elements of programming.
And then, from there,
I'm going to talk about application
complexity and
the fifth element of programming.
And then kind of as a grand finale,
that we're going to talk about
how to take all of that and
talk about distributed complexity,
which I believe that, when you talk
about enterprise applications at scale,
especially with the cloud,
what you are looking at is
distributed complexity at scale.
And so this is where ultimately, I hope
to end up by the end of this workshop.
And so
there's some resources that I've prepared.
And, if you go to this repo,
then you can clone it and
we are going to work through this.
And in the read me,
it talks about how to get up and running.
The caveat I would say, is that,
what I'm going to talk about,
is framework agnostic?
With that said, I'm going to use a few
angular bits to just kind of hold things
together and create some presentation
elements so that we can help make
the points or illustrate these concepts
in a way that we can see it easier.
So, this is the repo for the course,
but [COUGH] I've also produced a few
stack blitz, that you can just hop in
if you don't want to download the repo.
So most of what we're doing today, you
can do just right inside of stack blitz.
So the first section we're gonna talk
about a refactoring example, you can
go here, and then when we get to the fifth
element, I'll be talking about time.
You can also go to these links as well and
work through those along with me.
So I've done as much as I can to
keep the framework piece out of it.
Because I just want to
talk about programming.
And [COUGH] one other thing
worth mentioning is that,
we're going to be using stack Blitz for
a lot of this in using TypeScript.
And so if you just go to stackblitz.com,
you can click on TypeScript and
you can start a project and so
let me hope into the browser.
And i'll just illustrate
this one point real quick.
So we'll just go to stapplets.com and in
this case because I'm logged in, you can.
It's showing all my projects but
you can just click on TypeScript and
we have a blank TypeScript project.
All right with that said
back in to the slides.
And now [COUGH] let's start
at the beginning, and
I'm going to set some context for
the narrative arc.
When I decided that I wanted to program,
I was incredibly enthusiastic.
And I remember that I decided
that I want to be a programmer.
Specifically, I wanted to
be a flashpro programmer.
We know how that turned out,
but with that said, I went and
I found the best programmer I could find.
And I went to this person, I'm like,
I want you to teach me how to program.
And this individual was like, sure on,
I'd be happy to teach you to program and
essentially, this, my mentor was like,
we're gonna do this and
it felt a lot like I was painting fences,
and it didn't make a lot of sense.
And then my mentor was like,
well, let's do this for a while.
And I'm like, no like you don't
understand I want to program.
I wanna be a hacker and an elevator shaft,
doing really cool things.
I don't wanna do this.
And so in my mind,
[COUGH] when I thought of programming,
it was kind of that hacker Individually
that you see on Hollywood television,
and that's what I thought programming was.
And this individual wisely said, no,
we're going to do these things and
they were very repetitious.
They were very mundane.
And then, at some point, it was like,
we're going to do these things to decide
if it makes sense, it's gonna get weird.
Really weird.
And from there, I kind of I
still I didn't understand like,
why am I doing these things and
the course of my arc in my
progression as a programmer is I
found myself doing things
that didn't make sense but.
I realized that we do this thing
right here, these very intentional
practices and these mindful
practices when we programmer.
So if you go read clean code or a lot
of these old kind of perennial books on
software engineering, there's a reason
why they talk about doing code katas And
the reason why you do for
instance code kata is interesting they
call it that is we do this for
moments like this.
There's going to be a time when
everything is breaking, falling apart and
it's a high torque situation and
you're going to be very glad.
That you took the time to commit to
first principles in programming so
that you can stand on
the beach if you will, or
in a low torque environment and
pick these skills up, so
that when you get in situations like this,
it's muscle memory.
And so this is [COUGH] something one of my
favorite funded masters instructors will
sentence.
He is the master for first principles and
really breaking things down to the core.
And philosophically, I completely
agree because you're going to run
into these situations when you're going
to be extremely glad, that you did this.
And so, as we start on this course,
in this workshop,
the course of the workshop,
that we are going to start
with some very basic patterns,
we are going to start painting the fence.
We're going to wax the car.
And I realize that making Karate Kid
references that there is a contingent of
viewers that may not even
know about this movie.
If you haven't seen it go check it out,
it's awesome, but If we focus on these and
if you'll trust me to go through
these simplest examples.
And I know that there's going to
be some of us that are like look,
I already know how to do this.
I know how to paint a fence,
I know how to wax a car.
But at some point, everything is
going to click, and it will connect.
And, I promise that we
are going somewhere.
It's not going to be here.
But, there is a very specific arc.
And what I believe more than anything,
is that as you progress as an engineer,
that you start to reduce complexity.
To a very few patterns that
you use over and over and
these are what I want to share with you,
that has made me a very
effective developer.
After 20 years, I realized everything
that I can do, I can write
on a single piece of paper, and this
is what we're here to talk about today.
Should you start in the repo or
in the stack blitz?
Personally, I like to work locally.
So I would start in the repo,
just pull it down.
But if for some reason you don't wanna do
that you can follow along in the stack
blitz, so it's just a way to give
some individuals some more options.